---
layout: post
title: 'Iâ€™m back on the hills.'

---

Went to physio last night, which was by far the least painful visit. This
inspired confidence to go to the Peak District or Shropshire for my first proper
walk since, er, the last one. It must have been at least a month.

Requirements of the walk:

Maximum chance of seeing a [cloud
inversion](http://www.ogwen-rescue.org.uk/pictures_of_ogwen/images/main/cloud_invert.php).
Fair amount of ascent with little horizontal mileage as I am unsure how my knee
will be and how  ankles are ( this is the first walk I have done in a while in
boots).  Exposure to fog to improve my micro-navigation.

Woke up this morning, and checked out the weather. The fog (with its cloud
inversion possibilities) and closeness of big hills to Edale was the winning
choice. So off I went.

Got to [Edale](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edale) car park at 09:45 and started
walking just after 10. Crossing Grindsbrook, I met with an 'older' walker and we
chatted all the way to the top of the brook. Felt embarrassed as I could just
about keep up, he was a true mountain goat hoping rocks all the way up, whereas
I was in full both handed scramble mode.

We were both disappointed when we reached the top of the brook as the cloud top
appeared 100 metres or more above our heads. We agreed that an inversion was
probably not going to happen and went our own ways. I started walked eastwards
along the edge and after about 20 minutes, I notices blue skies appearing. This
surely means the clouds are lowering. Quickly through the rucksack off and got
the camera out. Not much. Just seeing the top of cloud a bit above my head but
it quickly rose again.

10 minutes later however, the inversion happened. For about 10 minutes I could
see for miles including the top of Grindslow Knoll popping its head over the
cloud. This is my first inversion and I was amazed. The cloud rose and lowered
many times over the walk so I saw many inversions. I have also learnt that you
should try to position yourself between the sun and the inversion to see a
[broken spectre](http://atoptics.co.uk/droplets/globrock.htm), but that wasn't
possible today.

With all this excitement, I forgot about my knee. Which must be a good sign,
because it normally reminds me by... hurting. Nothing so far. Finally after
about 1.5 mile of edge walking, I descended back to edale. During the descent, I
felt only discomfort, no pain though I did have the knee support on and used the
Lekis greatly.  Looks like my next walk on Boxing Day might happen.

Finally, I had to once again cross Grindsbrook and the water running over rocks
inspired me to try some creative photography, but lack of skills failed
miserably. Must learn how to use Shutter Priority mode as all my attempts were
way over exposed. Must try harder!

