---
layout: post
title: 'Another walk over Church Stretton'

---
Was a little annoyed Saturday. Normally, I manage to plan the weekend route in
advance taking into account weather - what to take, wear and similar. However,
due to having to go to Scotland for a couple of days and other unpredictables, I
failed to do this by Saturday morning. I wasn't too concerned as I had planned
to go out on Sunday but on review of the weather (Saturday nice, Sunday not) I
decided to go out Saturday. I know it well enough now for poor weather
not to deter me and its relatively close by.

I hadn't done a big walk for a few weeks so I decided on a variation on the
previous big walk over the south Shropshire hills. I started by parking on the
north end of The Lawley. I would then walk over this gradually ascending hill
then down to the foot of Caer Caradoc. At the top, I would bear eastwards
through Church Stretton to pick up some munchies on way to Long Mynd.

Carding Mill Valley was my planned ascent route and I particularly enjoyed
walking past Light Spout Hollow. At the top I wondered along the plateau to
descend down my favorite part of Long Mynd - Ashes Hollow. This stroll was made
the more pleasant by the company of an ex vicar / church geezer. He was raving
about long distance walking reminiscing about his own travels across south of
France and Pyrenees. I haven't seen Ashes Hollow so in spate and the scrambling
was wet to say the least.

At the bottom I met with the A49 and turned left to tackle Ragleith Hill which
wasn't too bad. My final hill of the day was to be Hope Bowder hill, the plan
being to descend and skirt Caer Caradoc and parallel the Lawley. However, I felt
I had enough energy and skin on my feet to do another crossing of Caer Caradoc
though I couldn't repeat the Lawley. I finally got back to the car as it was
turning dark. I blame the lack of light for the loss of my North Face beanie -
oh how I miss you...

In the end I measured 21.5 miles with about 1250 metres of ascent and my legs
felt like it until Tuesday :)

