---
layout: post
title: 'Blisters in Edale'

---
I went to the peak district on Sunday although things were meant to be
significantly different. The original plan was to do 
[Aran Fawddwy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aran_Fawddwy)
 in south Snowdonia  with Chris and Nick - we would do a similar distance to
next weekend (Scafell Pike) with a little less ascent. However neither Chris nor
Nick could make it meaning I was to do Snowdonia alone. Still, should be good...

<!--more--> 

That was until Saturday evening when I heard the up to date weather
forecast - Thunder. Nice. So a quick think lead to back to the peaks. Weather
would be fine and I knew the area sufficiently to not have to plan a route in
detail. I would attempt the Edale Skyline AGAIN.

Got to Mam Tor about 9.45am and started off along the ridge towards Lose Hill.
It was about 3/4 along the ridge that I thought water (or lack of water) might
be an issue. I was only carrying 3 litres and the sun was beating hard  - it was
only 11:00am. At Lose Hill, I decided to go towards Hope and fill up, which I
did. Damn, I had already sucked the camelbak empty. 3 litres later and I was off
towards Hope Cross.

The ascent was quiet tough in the heat and I finally got to the cross about
12:30. A pleasant lunch (sausage sandwiches:) ) by a dead sheep and lots of
flies went quickly and I continued uphill to Crookestone Knoll. It was only at
this part of the walk that the crowds had started to subside. At the knoll, I
turned east towards Kinder Scout staying close to the Edale edge.

I had originally decided not to plan the route and as I got to Grindesbrook
Clough I had the decision to try the tricky descent or continue on to Brown
Knoll and its peaty beauty. No contest really. So I descended the Clough in
still great heat. I didn't feel to bad at this time due to not having to walk up
hill but was still relieved when I arrived at Edale in the valley bottom.

I bought another 2 litres of water ready for the final ascent up Mam Tor. I was
pleased at this stage that I had no knee pain - it looked good for next weekends
Scafell Pike ascent but I had developed blisters for first time since Cadair
Idris last year. This was mainly because I failed to tie the Merrells
sufficiently tight.

Finally about 4:00  I started the walk up Mam Tor. Very quickly the heat hit
home and I struggled up the hill extremely slowly. Each footstep hurt and I
ended up stopping for a few seconds every 10 steps or so. I would deliberately
eat salty cashews and drink lots of water but neither helped. I even sat in the
shade of a stone wall for about 20 minutes, but when I arose I felt no cooler.
It was pretty much 5 when I got to the top and could make the final descent back
to the car.

