---
layout: post
title: '2nd Project Peaks walk'

---
2nd training walk happened yesterday, this time just Nick and myself as Chris
was sunning himself down south at Motorcyle racing - typical as we had no sun.

We started early to get up to Hathersage for about 10ish. This would allow
[Outide](http://www.outside.co.uk/) (great shop!) to bash my Scarpa's
into a comfortable state before walking the ridge between Lose Hill and Rushup
Edge. As the weather has been great over the last few days and I have been
trying to lose weight from the rucksack, I decided to leave waterproof trousers
and a fully waterproof coat at home. Instead my trusty new Paramo Fuera
windproof and water resistant would keep me warm and dry (as if it would rain!).

As we drove up from Walsall, the weather disappointed as it was cloudy and
looked like rain was a possibility. This was confirmed with a few rain drops as
we entered Buxton and continued through to Hathersage. I comforted Nick by
suggesting it will brighten up as the sun burnt away the moisture. We got to
Hathersage in the end about 10:15 and I spent around 30 minutes having the Scarpas
repeatedly smacked with a hammer to try to prevent my previous ankle rubbing
issues. Whilst I sweated and worried about my Â£150 boots being bashed, Nick
enjoyed a cup of tea in the café upstairs.

We finally arrived at Castleton about 11.20, parked up and started walking
11.30. Starting by walking through the village, we brought some pasties and
sandwiches then turned uphill towards Lose Hill. Initially the hill ascended
gradually until about 50 metres before the end and the legs started to suffer.
This suffering was exaggerated as the light cloud turned to mist then finally
rain. My waterproof less legs were getting wet though luckily for me, Nick was
windward of me and therefore got most of the rain. It was at this point that I
realised the difference between water-proof and water-resistant: the Fuera was
starting to let in a bit of water due to the constant raining even if not heavy.

At the summit we turned left toward Back Tor straight into the wind and rain.
Nice, now the hooded face was wet. We kept our heads  down and continued at a
considerable speed over Back Tor, grabbed lunch in the shade of Hollins Cross
and speeded again over Mam Tor. It was disappointing that we couldn't see
anything other than mist. Only 2 hours after the start and we were descending
our final hill of the day - Lords Seat on Rushup Edge.

We got to the road and turned towards Castleton and the most interesting section
of the walk for me. It was interesting walking along the old Chapel-en-le-Frith
- Castleton Rd that finally collapsed in '77 after many rebuilds over the last
  100 years. Very strange walking on what appeared a decent quality road other
than the huge cracks and totally displacement of the surface.

We got back to the car about 3.30 expecting the 'Journey From Hell' being a bank
holiday. Amazingly it was one of my fastest return journeys; less than 2 hours.
Note to self: waterproof that Fuera.
