---
layout: post
title: 'Borrowdale Bash'

---

Just come back from a great weekend up the Lakes doing a solo Borrowdale Bash attempt. I had a great tale though diidn't quite complete the rocky mammoth...
<!--more-->
I drove up to the <a href="http://www.hazelwoodkeswick.com">Hazelwood B&amp;B</a> (good place) in Keswick Friday evening from work. This confirmed my previously through travel time to the lakes as about 4 1/2 hours on a Friday evening for the 150 miles journey though I was surprised at the -5 degrees temperate reading as I drove down the A66. On arrival I secured my bike, unpacked, and snuggly donned the hat, gloves and an extra fleece as I braved the elements to conquer my first goal - battered sausage and chips from the Keswick chippy. Yum yum, especially when they got washed down with a Guiness. Anyhow, an early return to bed would set me up for the tough ride Saturday.

Saturday morning was very tough before I even got out of bed. I normally leave my curtains slightly open to allow sunlight to wake me. However, by 7.30 it was still dark, and only dawn at 8am. Really didn't' feel like getting up, but the thought of a full English was sufficient to get me dressed and downstairs. Breakfast munched, and biking clothes on, there was no longer an excuses, the slight rumbling doubt as to my abilities for a Lake District ride left quickly as I followed the road out of Keswick through Grange to Seatoller. Yep, first admission, I missed the Watendlath section, mainly due it containing over 1/2 of the total ascent of the proper route, and I didn't think the knee was upto it, as I was later found to be correct. Instead, following the road eventually got me to the bus stop in Seatoller where I promptly despatched a Ginsters ham and cheese pastie. Oh, and I found out what the weird 'wettish' noise from the rear of the bike was - a slipping seatpost found my rear crud catcher catching against the tire - the resolution was to raise and twist the seatpost again to upright / straight, and tighten the quick release to steel bending pressures. Sorted.

Now then, enough faffing (my excuse was letting lunch 'settle'), better start climbing the Honister Pass. For my wimpy being, this is real tough, harder than the Buttertubs, or at least steeper. Had to push the last 50 metres or so to the bridleway right. Onto the Allerdale Ramble which redefined the term Bridleway to me. I must have walked  about 20% of this path down to Grange. The reason? Wet rocks * chance of broken teeth * my bravery equaled walking the sheer slate sections. the real bumpy stuff wasn't so bad, but a few rock gardens were just too much for me. Unfortunately, as I tried walking (well, easy scrambling actually!) the knee packed in again. As soon as I got on the bike, it would be fine, but it was incredibly frustrating riding 100 metres to have to get off and push 10. Still, the last bit was a blast and I got truly thrown around on a couple of rocky bits, and nobody warned me there would be wet roots at the bottom also, though Cannock prepared me for those.

At Grange, I put away a couple of flapjacks and made my final decision - to avoid the last bit of the Allerdale Ramble incase it meant more walking. Instead the road ride back was a blast (downhill) and a struggle (uphill). Still a few nice photos were taken over Derwent Water and I might even post these when I get the Mac / Windows Mobile phono to talk nicely but enough of that in this post....

Got back to base at about 14:30 where I showered, changed and headed into Keswick for some grub. Went to the Bank Tavern as the Gun and Dog was rammed. I was very impressed with a tasty Lamb in mint gravy with jacket spud and veg. I don't eat a whole load of lamb, but when in Rome.... This was honestly then nicest lamb I have ever eaten. Another pint of the black stuff put me in the desired sleepy state to mong at the B&amp;B in front of saturday night telly.

This morning, I spent some time driving the Buttermere / Crummock Valley then down through Windermere back home. Great weekend and am thoroughly shattered, just right for work tomorrow :)
