---
layout: post
title: 'New day, new bike'

---
Since my last post, things have happened quite quickly on the bike scene. As
some will know, my knee still isn't right and this has led to a reduction in
walking, and hence posting here. Also, my physiotherapist suggested cycling as
an exercise to help with recovery. I used to mountain bike years ago, and
haven't been on a bike for about 2 years. So the last couple of months, I have
been on my old Marin several times, and during some thought on upgrading it
inline with the 21st century, I  decided to replace it altogether.

I went upto Hawes a few weeks ago to test ride an Orange P7, and really liked
it. So much so that I ordered a couple of Mondays ago, but due to hivering and
hovering about sizing, spec etc, I messed up the order. This combined with an
Orange stocktake, meant I would have to wait until  mid November for the bike.

How surprised was I yesterday, when I got a call from Swinnertons @ cannock to
inform me the bike was ready. Although I needed to complete doing our flat roof
and the guttering due to the roof leaking, the call of fancy new equipment was
too strong, and I picked it up on way back from getting our power washer
serviced. At home, I  took the obligatory <a
href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/goatifiedcreature/sets/72157602884577867">pics</a>
and attached a crud catcher and some frame protection.

My original plans for today were to sit on the turbo trainer for a couple of
hours, as I still don't trust my knee sufficiently to go out proper riding just
yet, but the new bike was sufficient to force a trip over Sutton Park, albeit
driving their to avoid Barr Beacon. I only did a single circuit of the park, but
it was great fun - riding hardtails is so much fun having to actually pick lines
rather than tumble over anything on a bouncer. Maybe some of the fun came from
the newness factor also though.

Anyhow, it was a good day, and now that I have just sold my old Imac, I have
ordered some more tools to treat the bike to some TLC.

The only outdoors thing to happen last week was a further discussion with Phil
Sant about a few day trek around the Lakes next year. Probably set up a base
camp  at Langdale, and do some circulars or hopefully two dayers from there on.
Oh, and I have my final knee consultation in exactly 1 month. Just hope the knee
is fully mended for than as its been 4 months since last walk and I am eagerly
awaiting the call of contour lines again!
