---
layout: post
title: 'Knee problems AGAIN over the peak district'

---
After a month or so of resting my knee from hill walks, I drove up to Edale on
Thursday. I parked at layby just off Mam Tor, and walked over the Tor down to
Edale. I then had great fun climbing up Grindesbrook Clough which was full of
water from the previous rains. At the top, I turned right walking along the edge
to Hope Cross.

My pace was quick as their were darkening clouds following me but they seperated
as I got to the Cross and walked down towards Crimea Farm. I had also managed to
avoid much water and mud which was a releif as was trying the Inov-8s again.
However, at Crimea Farm, the water and mud started. I managed to tip toe around
several until I got to a hugh muddy puddle onlooked by the farmer who was
chainsawing some trees. He commented that I should speed up to avoid the
oncoming rain, and I obeyed, continuing tiptoeing over stones through the puddle
- followed shortly by tripping onto all fours in the mud. He chuckled and asked
whether I was ok. I obviously said I was fine, and it was my stupid fault for
trying to avoid the mud.

Anyway, I continued, still enjoying myself though with slightly wet feet. I do
find the non waterproof approach annoying in these conditions though, as just as
your feet dry, they get wet again!

It wasn't untill I started the final descent from Win Hill that my right knee
started to hurt again. It still hasn't repired with a tight sharp pain on outer
lower part of knee. It wasn't too bad, and I managed to make decent progress to
the car, but I am certainly not ready for bigger of even multiday walks yet.
Maybe a claim on bupa is needed for some physio.

To continue my foolishness, I couldn't be bothered to change into waterproofs as
the rain started. The clouds seemed seperated and I thought only a quick shower
would fall. Unfortatenly, it rained persistently for 1 hour until I got back to
the car. Doh!! Also, when in the car, I didn't take my wet socks off as I hadn't
brought a spare pair. I drove for about 30 miles before taking em off. Oh it
smelt, but oh it was bliss, with the heating at 26 degrees just aimed at my
sodden feet!!!
